# July 14, 2019

Deriving knowledge and truth from information requires
  technical skills focused on working with data,
  awareness and intentionality of their personal ethics
  a rational mind capable of critical thinking with acknowledgement of their bias
  optionally a genuine appreciation of [the beauty of] mathematics

Just now when completing this exercise (https://app.dataquest.io/m/289/introduction-to-numpy/6/selecting-columns-and-custom-slicing-ndarrays) I realised we're going to need to spend a bit of time on the slicing syntax. Data munging is a recurring theme in my research so it's obviously an important part of creating a solid data foundation before working on models. This slicing is also important when determining the impact of specific features when chosing the most appropriate models. We should scatter at least 4 solid days of data slicing practice throughout the bootcamp. Here is my understanding:

array[<slice syntax>]
row_start:row_end,column_start:column_end

Note: the row_end and column_end are exclusive

When your start is 0, just leave it blank (start with a `:`, e.g. `:3`)
Likewise, when you don't have an end, just leave it blank (end with a `:`, e.g. `2:` )

Tip/mneumonic: The `axis` parameter when using some of the ndarray functions, you can remember that a value of 1 is rows, because the output is standing up straight, like the number "1". Also, a value of 0 provides an output of values that is flat/zero (0) on the the X aXis.

When describing the location of data (columns and rows) be particularly attentive to the distinction between "the 3rd row/column" versus "the row/column at index 2". The zero-based index make these different descriptions.
